UNDERSTANDING AWS ACCOUNT

The Free Tier:
    Gives a way for developers to get hands on with various aws services for Free
    at no cost up to a certain usage point
        - some services are free for the first year, others have a free tier indefinetly
    
Product Pricing:
    AWS runs a pay-as-you-use model
    
    Calculating Pricing:
        1) AWS Simple Monthly Calculator:
            http://calculator.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html
                - Handy webpage that allows the addition of resources expected to be used
                based on time that then displays expected cost per month

        2) AWS Total Cost Of Ownership Calculator:
            Input the current enterprise infrastructure setup and AWS will compare
            the price difference if the setup was moved to the Cloud

Service Limits:
    AWS places service limits across all of its resources to prohibit large companies
    from consuming everything
        - Some resources have adjustable limits that can be increased by contacting support
        - Some resources have a non adjustable limit 

Billing and Cost Managment:
    1) AWS Billing Dashboard:
        Provides a real time view of the current cost of services being used on AWS 
            - Breaks each service down and how much it costs
        Can view free tier usage consumption 
    2) AWS Budgets:
        Provides a way to track specified monetary spending thresholds and when breached send emails to alert of spending
            - can track by:
                1) monetary
                2) usage
AWS Organizations:
    Service used for when a company needs to isolate accounts
        - A root account controls all below accounts

Monitoring Your Costs:
    How to view current spending habbits of an account
    1) Cost Explorer:
        Highly customizable dashboard that allows the viwing of historical and current costs
    2) Cost and Usage Reports
        AWS service that can be used to create spending reports in CSV format that can be output to s3 for visualization
    * Cost Allocation Tags:
        Provide a way to track via the dashboard(Cost explorer) AWS resources and how the are impacting costs in the account
            - AWS attachs default cost allocation tags, but custom ones can be applied

Summary:
    AWS allows for people to get hands on experience with services by providing generous free tier usage. Free tier usage such as t2.micro for 750 hours in a year. Some 
    services have a free tier that persists after the end of the first year like cloudwatch and API gateway. Free tier usage can be viewed in the AWS billing dashbord. 
    Every AWS services has a limit on the usage. This is to prevent peple from hogging all of the bandwidth. It is important to understand the spending going on in an account. 
    To view spending AWS has the AWS Billing service that provides the current monthly spending which is broken down by service. In the Billing dashboard, alerts can be configured
    through the Budgets function. Usage alerts are based on service usage, and monetary alerts are based on amount spent in a month. 
    To understand What will be spent given a architecture desing AWS provides a AWS Simply monthly calculator. When deciding to move from on-premise to the cloud AWS provides the 
    Total cost of ownership dashboard to compute current on premise spending and how the cost would differ when shifting to AWS cloud. To configure customizable dashboard for viewing spending AWS provides 
    the cost explorer service, and the cost and usage reports service to produce reports in CSV format. 