SECURING YOUR AWS RESOURCES

AWS IAM:
    provides all the basic tools to manage an accounts security through authentication and authorization features

    Protecting the root user:
        it is recommended to either disable root access keys, are enforce strict password typing and MFA for root user
    
    Authentication:
        In order to access resources on AWS you must either provide a password/access keys/ or key pairs for ec2 instances
            1) Passwords:
                To ensure password stength IAM provdies a password policy that can be used to enforce passwords across IAM users
                ** MFA: setting up will provide a second layer of security for your user accounts access
                    - MFA requires a MFA device followed by an authenticator app installed on the device
            2) Acess Keys:
                provide CLI based access to AWS services
                ** Access keys are comprised of an access key ID and a secret access key
                Can be renewed through the dashboard
            3) Secure shell key pairs:
                provide the ability to interact with linux based ec2 instances through the ssh command
                SSH tunnels make sure that communication to the terminal is encrypted
                The private key is used to SSH to the server
        USERS GROUPS AND ROLES:
            1) Users:
                Primary building block to giving people access to the AWS account
                ** if replacing the root account, can provide a user with the AdministratorAcess policy to provide root user capabilities
            2) Groups:
                Provide a way to group users to similar permission sets
                Users tied to a group automatically inherit permissions bound to the group
                ** Removing policies from the group are automatically applied to the users attached to the group
            3) Roles:
                Used by services or applications not users
                Each role is bound to a trusted entity: who can use this role
                    - EC2 instances
                    - identity providers
                    - cognito 
Federated Access:
    Allows for encorporating already existing login procedures into the AWS cloud.
    - AWS SSO: use a federated IDP to gain access to AWS resources
    - AWS AD: use an external active directory to gain acess to AWS resources
        ** AWS microsoft AD can be used to integrate with MS sharepoint, .NET, SQL based workloads

IAM Credential Report:
    Single button that provides a detail CSV file that displays:
        - current users
        - when users keys were last used
        - last key rotation
        - who has MFA settings
        - last login

Encryption:
    When thinking about security on AWS think no further than AWS KMS
    - KSM:
        AWS service that provides keys for encyrpting date on AWS
        KMS uses customer managed keys to encrypt data in AWS
        * There are various things that benefit from encryption: s3, EBS volumes, RDS data
        * EBS volumes can only be encrypted on creation
        * S3: 
            s3 has a couple options for encryption:
                - SSE-S3: encryption keys are managed by s3 through KMS and encrypts each object in the s3 bucket
                - SSE-KMS: encryption through KSM provided keys
        Client side encryption is the process of generating keys client side, encrypting the data and then transmitting the data over the wire
            - done through KMS customer managed master key or a client side master key

AWS Artifact:
    service for understanding and making sure your in compliance with certain regulatory requirements
    Artifact: the compliance agreement provided by Amazon
    Service organization controls: reports on audits on AWS infrastructure

Summary:
    AWS can be accessed through passwords, access keys, and ssh key pairs. Access keys are comprised of an access key id and a private access key. 
    SSH key pairs are essential to setting a seucre tunel to an ec2 instace using the private key pair.
    When it comes to controlling access, and securing resources AWS provides IAM and KMS to help with this task. 
    AWS IAM is a highly avaialbe identity and access managmenet service for controlling
    access to resources through users, groups, and roles. A user is someone who can log into the AWS console, 
    or even use acess keys to access the CLI. When creating passwords for users IAM allows
    for a password policy that enforces certain requirments on users passwords. Groups allow for defining permissions 
    that can apply to multiple users rather than applying policies per user. Roles define
    permissions that apply to services or applications. Each role must have a trusted identity that defines who can use this role. Federated access 
    is the process of using external login processes to 
    gain access to a system through and identity provider. AWS has a SSO in IAM that can utalize this external IDP to give accesss to AWS. When integrating 
    an existing active directory use AWS AD or AWS microsoft AD for 
    use with sharepoint, .net, or SQL based workloads. To understand what credentials are being used utalize 
    IAM credential report that will generate a CSV file holding detailed informatio non how credentials are
    being used in the account. AWS KMS is the service that is used for encrypting data. KMS uses customer managed keys to encrypt data. S3 data can be encrypted 
    by using S3-SSE, S3-KMS. It is also possible to encrypt data on the clients side by using customer managed master keys.

