CORE NETWORKING SERVICES

Virtual Private Cloud:
    VPC's are virtual networks that are isolated from other networks
    ** AWS Creates a default vpc in each region for an account that allows ec2
    instaces to access the internet

    VPC CIDR Blocks:
        Each VPC requires a classless inter domain routing block (CIDR) 
        ** Each cidr prefix can be from /16 - /28
        AWS can provision a IPv6 block for a vpc if needed
    
    Subnets:
        A VPC requires subnets to deploy Ec2 instances to
        ** A subnet is a subset of the VPC's cidr block
    
    Internet Access:
        In order to give ec2 instances internet access and a public IP address:
            Internet gateway: resource to give ec2 instances public IP addresses
            ** must assign the default route of the subnet in the vpc to the internet gateway
            ** A subnet with routing to an internet gateway is a public subnet
            Elastic IP:
                can be allocated to an EC2 instance, but can re-assigned to an ec2 instance as well
            AWS can automatically assign IP's if needed
    
    Security Groups:
        Firewall that controlls access to EC2 instances
        ** security groups have inbound and outbound rules
        Security groups have no initial inbound rules, and allow all outbound traffic by default
        Each ec2 instance must be attached to a security group
        ** Every VPC contains a default security group
    
    Network Access Control Lists:
        A firewall that controlls access to the subnets themselves
        ** consists of inbound and outbound rules that allow all inbound by default

    VPC Peering:
        Allows for different resources in different vpc's to communincate with eachother over a private network
        and not over the internet
        ** VPC does not need internet connetivity to use VPC peering
        ** can peer to vpcs in different regions
    
    Virtual Private Network:
        A point to point private connectiong to resources outside AWS such as a datacenter
        Setup:
            - Create a virtual private gateway and attach it to the vpc
            - Configure the on-premise router to connect to the virtual prviate gateway
        ** VPN connections use AES-128 or 256 bit encryption for communication
        IP routing:
            - can be static or configured dynamically through BGP border gateway protocol
        ** A VPN can support 10 VPN connections 
    
    Direct Connect:
        Provides a network connection to AWS services without having to go through the internet
        Obtain a direct connect through AWS partner network (APN) partners
        ** Operates at a speed of 1 0 10 GBps
        If lesser speeds are needed a hosted direct connection can be optained through APN

Route 53:
    AWS domain name resolution service that is responsible for the translation of human
    readable names to ip addresses through name translation
    Resource records:
        fore route53 DNS to work a name(alias), type, and value must be assigned to a record
        a record can point to:
            - arbitrary text, a mail server, ipv4, and ipv6 addresses
    Domain Name registration:
        a domain name registrar contains top level domains (TLD) for people to register in their name
        ** no two domains can be owned by the same person
        Registering a domain gives the lease between 1 to 10 years
        ** can transfer an owned dns to route 53 
    
    Hosted Zones:
        A hosted zone is created used to host the registered domain name
        Route 53 supports private hosted zone that allow communication within VPC'S
        ** private hosted zones are not accessible from the internet and are not available outside the VPC selected
    Routing policies:
        routing policies handle routing dynamically to avoid failuers
        1) Simple:
            points the DNS to a static value
            ** does not check if the resource is reachable
        2) Weighted:
            - distributes traffic for example by a percentage
        3) Latency:
            - Sends the requests to the region closest to the caller
        4) Failover:
            - routes traffic to a primary, and to a secondary if primary is down
        5) Geolocation:
            - route traffic based on continent, country, or stated
        6) Multivalue Answer:
            - distributes traffic across all resources by returning all records at random
    Health Checks:
        Every routing policy except simple supports a healthcheck to make sure the target is valid
        ** health check is configured to check ever 10 or 30 seconds
        3 possible healthcheck mechanisms:
            1) Endpoint:
                configures a health check endpoint either on http,https, or tcp
                ** route53 has various health checkers around the world and can be configured to use to check 
                    reachability from around the world
            2) Cloudwatch Alarm:
                watch cloudwatch alarm status to determine state of a resource
            3) Calculated:
                Makes it possible to monitor multiple healthchecks to make a decision on routing
    
    Traffic Flow and Traffic Policies:
        AWS Traffic flow allows the creation of traffic policies that represent traffic flow
        ** gets rid of the administrative burden of configuring routing policies
        The traffic policy is a diagram that can be applied to a domain name through a policy record
        ** each policy record costs 50$ per month
        ** can associate a geoproximity routing policy that applies based on how close a user is
            to a geolocation
    
CloudFront:
    Amazons content delivery network that speeds up the delivery of static and dynamic content by caching resources 
    at edge locations
    ** increases availability due to replicating of cache across multiple edge locations
    Selecting an edge location:
        - united states, canada, europe
        - united states canada europe, asia and africa
        - all edge locations 
    A distribution defines the content cloudfront should cache:
        1) Web distribution:
            most common and is used for static and dynamic content such as web-pages, video files, or streaming video
            - supports http and https access
            ** point to an origin such as a webserver or an s3 bucket (bucket must be public)
        2) Real-Time messaging protocol (RTMP): 
            delivers audio or streaming video
            ** select a media player and media files that must be in an s3 bucket

Summary: 
    AWS VPC is the primary network isolation mechanism for ec2 instances. A VPC is a cidr block that consists of subnets that each contain a subset of the vpc cidr. A VPC cidr support /16 - 28 range.
    A subnet is considered a public subnet if it has a routing policy in its route table pointing to an internet gateway. This allow internet access to the subnet, and allows for ec2 instances to
    obtain ip addresses. An elastic IP can also be configured for an ec2 isntace to make it reachable from the internat and can be transfered between ec2 instances. Security 
    for a vpc is controlled through security groups, and network ACL. Security groups controll access to ec2 instances and have inbound and outbound rules. Every ec2 instance must be
    assigned to a security group. Network ACL's controll access to subnets through inbound and outbound rules. Network ACL's allow all inbound by default. Each AWS account comes with
    a default VPC in each region. VPC peering allows two VPC's to communicate with eachother over a protected channel and not over the internet. VPC peering supports peering VPC's in
    different regions. A Virtual private network can be used to connect on prem services to a vpc through a virtual private gateway. The VPN communication is encypted through AWS 128
    or 256 bit encryption. A VPC can support up to 10 VPN connections. Finally a VPC can use direct connect to connect a VPC to AWS resources without going through a public internet channel
    A Direct connect channel is obtained through APN aws partner network partners and a dc channel support from 1 - 10 gbps. Route53 is AWS's DNS provider that handles as a domain registrar
    and a dns resolver. Registering a domain is done through creating a hosted zone that can be public or private. Private hosted zones are not accessible from the internet and are
    applied to a VPC. Each hosted zone has various records that are associated with some resource to be routed to. A resource can have a routing policy such as simple which is default
    and does not include availability checking, weighted which routes based on percentage, latency based that takes into account a callers closeness to a region, failover that will
    route based on availability of a primary or secondary target, geolocation that routes on continent, country, or state, and a multivalue answer that will route to all resources
    in a random order. On top of routing health checks can be used to check the availability of a resource. Endpoint healthchecks point to a specific resource over http and https and 
    support using specific health checker services to make sure geographic loctions can access the service. Cloudwatch Alarms monitor alarms from cloudwatch to
    determine the health of a resource. Calculated health checks take into account multiple health checks to determine. DNS records can be purchased through AWS or brought in from
    a third-party. AWS Traffic flow is a service that can be used for generating traffic policies that depict the overall traffic managment. Traffic policies are added to a policy
    record to handle routing for traffic. CloudFront is AWS's content delivery network that provides a chaching mechanism for web content through edge locations. Edge locations
    must be selected, and for content to be cached a distribution must be defined such as web or real time message protocol. A Web distribution must be from a web server or an s3
    and a real time message protocol distribution must come from s3 and is used for video or audio streaming.

1) b, D
2) A
3) b,C
4) e security groups do not hold a default inbound rule but hold an outbound allowing all traffic
5) b, D
6) B
7) a, B
8) b, D
9) B
10) C
11) C
12) A
13) B
14) A
15) A
16) C
17) B
18) A
19) B
20) a, d