EC2 Purchasing and Networking

EC2 Purchasing options:
    COST OPTIMIZATION
    1) on-demand:
        pay by the second and most expensive
        - full controll over instance lifecycle
        * recommended for short-term irregular workloads that can not be interrupted
    2) savings plans
        savings by making a commitment to a specified amound of usage for 1 to 3 year term
        - Two types:
            1) Compute Savings plan
                savings of up to 66% applied to instances by commiting to an instance usage reguardless of type/AZ/region/OS
            2) EC2 Instance Savigs plan
                savings of up to 72% by committing to usage of an instance family such a M5 in a specific region
    3) reserved instances
        savings through making a commitment to a specific instance configuration by type and region
        - billing discount applied to the use of on-demand instances
        * APPLIED TO A SPECIFIC REGION AND TYPE
        Pricing determinents:
            - instance attributes
            - term
            - payment options: determines how much of a discount 
                1) all upfront
                2) partial upfront
                3) no upfront 
            - offering class:
                1) convertable: convert from one instance type to another 
                2) standard: stuck to a specific instance type
    4) spot instances
        savings by using resources from unused resources on on-demand instances
        - hourly price based on demand of spot instances
        * can specify a maximum price willing to pay for a spot instace
        Rebalance Recommendation:
            aws will notify when the price is reaching close to your spot instance max price
        Spot instance interuption:
            aws will reclaim spot instance resources when capacity or price is no longer available 
    5) dedicated host
        a physical server dedicated to the user for ec2 capacity usage
        - allows usage with existing software licensing
        - give insight into the cpu cores and socks on the instace 
    6) dedicated instances
        a dedicated instance 
    7) capacity reservations
        reserve capacity for ec2 instances in a specific AZ for any amount of time
        Creation:
            - AZ to reserve
            - number of instances
            - instance attributes
        Matches instances that match the capacity reservation spec

EC2 and VPC
VPC: isolated network sections of AWS
    Securiity groups:
        virtual firewall that controlls traffic to ec2 instances
        - STATEFUL: meaning allowed will automatically allow out
    NACL:
        controlls traffic to subnets
        - STATELESS: meaning allowed and denied have to be explicitly specified
    Subnet:
        subset of VPC for hosting EC2 instances
        - subnet with routing to an IGW is a public subnet
        - subnets with a NAT GW are a private subnet
    Elastic IP:
        IP's bound to an ec2 instance that allow for instance failure by remapping the IP to a new running instance
    Elastic Network Interface:
         Virtual network card that can be associated with multiple EC2 instances. Allows for gpu usage

Summary:
    EC2 provides many purchasing options for cost-optomization which is one of the pillars of design. On-demand is the most expensive as you pay for what you use per hr. Spot instances 
    are resources not being used by on-demand instances that can be used for an ec2 instance. Spot instances are purchased by specifying a per hour price that is acceptable
    which is determined by demand. If the price of the spot instance or resources are being reclaimed the spot instance will be terminated. Savings plans are provide savings by commiting 
    to some degree of usage over a period of 1 to 3 years. There are two types of savings plans the first being compute with a savings of 66% by committing to a usage reguardless of 
    instance type/AZ/or region. The next is instance with a saving of 72% by commiting to a specific instance type in a specific AZ. Reserved instances provide cost savings by comitting
    to a specific instance tpye and AZ. Price savings comes from use of on-demand instances that match the reserved spec. Convertable reserved instances can have their instance 
    types changed, and standard means there is no changing of the instance type. Pricing is determined by instance type, region, and imprtantly the payment option. The payment options
    are all upfront, partial upfront, and no upfront. The more upfront the more savings applied. Dedicated instaces provide two forms: dedicated hosts give the most control for the 
    underlying system the instances run on, and dedicated instances give control to the compute used for the instances. Capacity reservation, involves reserving instance attributes in a 
    AZ for any amount of time. This is what makes capacity reservation different from savings plans is the time. EC2 and VPC's go hand in hand when running a network topology. VPC's contain
    securtiy groups that block traffic to instances and are stateful meaning that allowed traffic is automatically allowed as egress. NACL's control traffic to the subnet and are stateless.
    Elastic IP's are static IPV4 addresses that allow for fail-over to be re-assigned to ec2 instaces, but only one. Elastic Network Interface give EC2 instances additonal hardware such 
    as gpu compute power.



